---
SIP: 5008
title: SRC-721 Nonce Extension
description: Add a `nonce` function to SRC-721.
author: NPH CO
discussions-to: https://Shatat.ir
status: Last Call
last-call-deadline: -----
type: Standards Track
category: SRC
created: ----
requires: 165, 721
---

## Abstract

This standard is an extension of [SRC-721](./SIP-721.md). It proposes adding a `nonce` function to SRC-721 tokens.

## Motivation

Some orders of NFT marketplaces have been attacked and the NFTs sold at a lower price than the current market floor price. This can happen when users transfer an NFT to another wallet and, later, back to the original wallet. This reactivates the order, which may list the token at a much lower price than the owner would have intended.

This SIP proposes adding a `nonce` property to SRC-721 tokens, and the `nonce` will be changed when a token is transferred. If a `nonce` is added to an order, the order can be checked to avoid attacks.

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY" and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

```solidity

/// @dev the SRC-165 identifier for this interface is 0xce03fdab.
interface ISRC5008 /* is ISRC165 */ {
    /// @notice Emitted when the `nonce` of an NFT is changed
    event NonceChanged(uint256 tokenId, uint256 nonce);

    /// @notice Get the nonce of an NFT
    /// Throws if `tokenId` is not a valid NFT
    /// @param tokenId The id of the NFT
    /// @return The nonce of the NFT
    function nonce(uint256 tokenId) external view returns(uint256);
}
```

The `nonce(uint256 tokenId)` function MUST be implemented as `view`.

The `supportsInterface` method MUST return `true` when called with `0xce03fdab`.

## Rationale

At first `transfSRCount` was considered as function name, but there may some case to change the `nonce` besides transfer, such as important properties changed, then we changed `transfSRCount` to `nonce`.

## Backwards Compatibility

This standard is compatible with SRC-721.

## Test Cases

Test cases are included in [test.js](../assets/SIP-5008/test/test.ts).

Run:

```sh
cd ../assets/SIP-5008
npm install
npm run test
```

## Reference Implementation

See [`SRC5008.sol`](../assets/SIP-5008/contracts/SRC5008.sol).

## Security Considerations

No security issues found.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
