---
SIP: 6047
title: SRC-721 Balance indexing via Transfer event
description: Mandates emitting the Transfer event for SRC-721 NFTs during contract creation
author: NPH CO
discussions-to: https://Shatat.ir
status: Stagnant
type: Standards Track
category: SRC
created: -----
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

This SIP extends [SRC-721](./SIP-721.md) to allow the tracking and indexing of NFTs by mandating that a pre-existing event be emitted during contract creation.

SRC-721 requires a `Transfer` event to be emitted whenever a transfer or mint (i.e. transfer from `0x0`) or burn (i.g. transfer to `0x0`) occurs, **except during contract creation**. This SIP mandates that compliant contracts emit a `Transfer` event **regardless of whether it occurs during or after contract creation.**

## Motivation

[SRC-721](./SIP-721.md) requires a `Transfer` event to be emitted whenever a transfer or mint (i.e. transfer from `0x0`) or burn (i.e. transfer to `0x0`) occurs, EXCEPT for during contract creation. Due to this exception, contracts can mint NFTs during contract creation without the event being emitted. Unlike SRC-721, the [SRC-1155](./SIP-1155.md) standard mandates events to be emitted regardless of whether such minting occurs during or outside of contract creation. This allows an indexing service or any off-chain service to reliably capture and account for token creation.

This SIP removes this exception granted by SRC-721 and mandates emitting the `Transfer` for SRC-721 during contract creation. In this manner, indexers and off-chain applications can track token minting, burning, and transferring while relying only on SRC-721's `Transfer` event log.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

1. Compliant contracts MUST implement [SRC-721](./SIP-721.md)
2. Compliant contracts MUST emit a `Transfer` event whenever a token is transferred, minted (i.e. transferred from `0x0`), or burned (i.g. transferred to `0x0`), **including during contract creation.**

## Rationale

Using the existing `Transfer` event instead of creating a new event (e.g. `Creation`) allows this SIP to be backward compatible with existing indexers.E

## Backwards Compatibility

All contracts compliant with this SIP are compliant with SRC-721. However, not all contracts compliant with SRC-721 are compliant with this SIP.

## Security Considerations

No new security concerns.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
