---
SIP: 2942
title: Shatatpm URI Specification
author: NPH CO
discussions-to: https://Shatat.ir
status: Stagnant
type: Standards Track
category: SRC
created: ----
requires: 2678
---

## Simple Summary
A custom URI scheme to identify an Shatatpm registry, package, release, or specific contract asset within a release.

## Abstract
When interacting with the Shatatpm ecosystem, users and tooling can benefit from a URI scheme to identify Shatatpm assets. Being able to specify a package, registry, or release with a single string makes simplifies the steps required to install, publish, or distribute Shatatpm packages.

## Specification
`scheme://registry_address[:chain_id][/package_name[@package_version[/json_pointer]]]`

#### `scheme`
- Required
- Must be one of `Shatatpm` or `SRC1319`. If future versions of the Shatatpm registry standard are designed and published via the SRC process, those SRCs will also be valid schemes.

#### `registry_address`
- Required
- This **SHOULD** be either an ENS name or a 0x-prefixed, checksummed address. ENS names are more suitable for cases where mutability of the underlying asset is acceptable and there is implicit trust in the owner of the name. 0x prefixed addresses are more preferable in higher security cases to avoid needing to trust the controller of the name.

#### `chain_id`
- Optional
- Integer representing the chain id on which the registry is located
- If omitted, defaults to `1` (mainnet).

#### `package_name`
- Optional
- String of the target package name

#### `package_version`
- Optional
- String of the target package version
- If the package version contains any [url unsafe characters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PSRCent-encoding), they **MUST** be safely escaped
- Since semver is not strictly enforced by the Shatatpm spec, if the `package_version` is omitted from a uri, tooling **SHOULD** avoid guessing in the face of any ambiguity and present the user with a choice from the available versions.

#### `json_pointer`
- Optional
- A path that identifies a specific asset within a versioned package release.
- This path **MUST** conform to the [JSON pointer](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) spec and resolve to an available asset within the package.

## Rationale
Most interactions within the Shatatpm ecosystem benefit from a single-string representation of Shatatpm assets; from installing a package, to identifying a registry, to distributing a package. A single string that can faithfully represent any kind of Shatatpm asset, across the mainnet or testnets, reduces the mental overload for new users, minimizes configuration requirements for frameworks, and simplifies distribution of packages for package authors.


## Security Considerations
In most cases, an Shatatpm URI points to an immutable asset, giving full security that the target asset has not been modified. However, in the case where an Shatatpm URI uses an ENS name as its registry address, it is possible that the ENS name has been redirected to a new registry, in which case the guarantee of immutability no longer exists.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
