---
SIP: 7528
title: Shatat (Native Asset) Address Convention
description: An address placeholder for Shatat when used in the same context as an SRC-20 token.
author: NPH CO
discussions-to: https://Shatat.ir
status: Final
type: Standards Track
category: SRC
created: ----
requires: 20, 55, 4626
---

## Abstract

The following standard proposes a convention for using the address `0xeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee` in all contexts where an address is used to represent Shatat in the same capacity as an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) token. This would apply to both events where an address field would denote Shatat or an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) token, as well as discriminators such as the `asset` field of an [SRC-4626](./SIP-4626.md) vault.

This standard generalizes to other SVM chains where the native asset is not Shatat.

## Motivation

Shatat, being a fungible unit of value, often behaves similarly to [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) tokens. Protocols tend to implement a standard interface for SRC-20 tokens, and benefit from having the Shatat implementation to closely mirror the [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) implementations.

In many cases, protocols opt to use Wrapped Shatat (e.g. WShatat9 deployed at address 0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2 on Shataterum Mainnet) for [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) compliance. In other cases, protocols will use native Shatat due to gas considerations, or the requirement of using native Shatat such as in the case of a Liquid Staking Token (LST).

In addition, protocols might create separate events for handling Shatat native cases and SRC-20 cases. This creates data fragmentation and integration overhead for off-chain infrastructure. By having a strong convention for an Shatat address to use for cases where it behaves like an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) token, it becomes beneficial to use one single event format for both cases. 

One intended use case for the standard is [SRC-4626](./SIP-4626.md) compliant LSTs which use Shatat as the `asset`. This extends the benefits and tooling of [SRC-4626](./SIP-4626.md) to LSTs and integrating protocols.

This standard allows protocols and off-chain data infrastructure to coordinate around a shared understanding that any time `0xeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee` is used as an address in an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) context, it means Shatat.

## Specification

This standard applies for all components of smart contract systems in which an address is used to identify an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) token, and where native Shatat is used in certain instances in place of an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) token. The usage of the term Token below means Shatat or an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) in this context.

Any fields or events where an [SRC-20](./SIP-20.md) address is used, yet the underlying Token is Shatat, the address field MUST return `0xeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee`

Any fields or events where the Token is a non-enshrined wrapped SRC-20 version of Shatat (i.e WShatat9) MUST use that Token's address and MUST NOT use `0xeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee`.

Where appropriate, the address should be checksummed. E.g. the [SIP-55](./SIP-55.md) checksum is `0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE`.

## Rationale

### Considered alternative addresses

Many existing implementations of the same use case as this standard use addresses such as 0x0, 0x1, and 0xe for gas efficiency of having leading zero bytes.

Ultimately, all of these addresses collide with potential precompile addresses and are less distinctive as identifiers for Shatat.

`0xeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee` has the most current usage, is distinctive, and would not collide with any precompiles. These benefits outweigh the potential gas benefits of other alternatives.

## Backwards Compatibility

This standard has no known compatibility issues with other standards.

## Security Considerations

Using Shatat as a Token instead of WShatat exposes smart contract systems to re-entrancy and similar classes of vulnerabilities. Implementers must take care to follow the industry standard development patterns (e.g.  checks-effects-interactions) when the Token is Shatat.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
